a truckload of fuel has entered Gaza for
the first time since the start of the
war the UN has accused Israel of using
fuel as a weapon of War since the
beginning of the conflict after more
than a month Israel has allowed a single
truck carrying about 24,000 lers of
diesel to enter Gaza through the Rafa
Crossing but the fuel is only meant for
UN trucks to distribute Aid and not for
use in hospitals or other critical
civilian needs the UN Refugee agency
says it needs 100 60,000 lers of fuel
every day for its basic humanitarian
work well the head of unra has warned
that by the end of Wednesday around 70%
of the population of Gaza will be
without clean water and without fuel
desalination plants generators and
pumping stations will have stopped
working and the fuel crisis has of
course hit hospitals the hardest gaza's
largest hospital alifa needs up to
10,000 lers of fuel per day and was
forced to susp expend Services due to
lack of fuel we've also heard from
telecommunication companies they are
expected to run out of fuel today
Thursday leading to Serious Network
breakdowns let's go back to Han Mahmud
who is in khun inside the Gaza Strip so
such a small amount of fuel that has
entered into Gaza uh this is going to
cause real problems isn't it in the Gaza
Strip
uh yes indeed this is only a drop in the
ocean of of Gaza daily needs of the fuel
now as far as we know fuel has become an
essential Lifeline for hospitals and for
all the service facilities in the Gaza
trip take for example hospitals and due
to a shortage of a fuel and no drop of
fuel went to a shifa hospital led to
complete outage of power causing huge
problem to incubators for babies now
across the Gaza Strip particularly in
the the southern part uh we have major
hospital here like NASA hospital where
we're reporting it from and there's the
European hospital and there is other mid
Medi midsize Hospital in the sun Empire
also warning that by the end of the day
or early morning they will run
completely out of a fuel and they won't
have any of the services available uh
for uh for people the amount of a fuel
is only lit because the UN was unable
and has suspended all of its operations
of delivering Aid to gazan in the
southern part because the trucks did had
no fuel to move so there was a need and
there was a precondition that that
amount of fuel is only going to the
United Nations relief work particularly
the trucks that are going to take those
Aid and deliver them nothing else no
mention of hospitals no mention of
bakeries no mention of of other service
facilities uh in the Gaza in the Gaza
trip not only it's causing a problem for
hospital but also we have for example
the Telecommunications Company we have
pal pal group warned that by the end of
the day today it will Gaza completely
will go off the grid no communication
Services whatsoever no internet
connection whatsoever because there are
there are no fuel no fuel to to to power
the power generators and to generate
enough electricity to recharge the
batteries at Major at Major
communication divisions across the Gaza
Strip so what we're seeing is a a
complete shutdown in everything not only
in healthcare system but also in other
essential services such as
Communications Han Mahmud there for us
in hanun thank
you